demo/lightning/image-segmentation/README.md, before:

# Image Segmentation Demo Code
The code examples in this directory demonstrate how GCS Connector for Pytorch can be used for image segmentation training alongside PyTorch Lightning. The image segmentation workload implemented here works on the [KiTS19](https://github.com/neheller/kits19) dataset which contains `210` images and their corresponding labels. The images and their labels are stored in separate directories.

1. `dataset.py`

    Defines the `DatafluxPytTrain` class which wraps two `DataFluxMapStyleDataset`s corresponding to the `images` and the `labels` in the raw dataset.
    ```py
    def __init__(
            self,
            project_name,
            bucket_name,
            **kwargs,
        ):

            self.train_transforms = kwargs["transforms"]
            patch_size, oversampling = kwargs["patch_size"], kwargs["oversampling"]
            self.patch_size = patch_size
            self.rand_crop = RandBalancedCrop(patch_size=patch_size,
                                            oversampling=oversampling)

            # GCS Connector for Pytorch specific setup.
            self.project_name = project_name
            self.bucket_name = bucket_name

            self.images_dataset = dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.DataFluxMapStyleDataset(
                project_name=self.project_name,
                bucket_name=self.bucket_name,
                config=dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.Config(
                    # This needs to be True to map images with labels
                    sort_listing_results=True,
                    prefix=kwargs["images_prefix"],
                ),
            )

            self.labels_dataset = dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.DataFluxMapStyleDataset(
                project_name=self.project_name,
                bucket_name=self.bucket_name,
                config=dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.Config(
                    # This needs to be True to map images with labels
                    sort_listing_results=True,
                    prefix=kwargs["labels_prefix"],
                ),
            )
    ```

1. `data.py`

    Implements the `Unet3DDataModule` class which inherits from PyTorch Lightning's `LightningDataModule`. An instance of the `DatafluxPytTrain` class is created in its `setup` function.

    ```py
    def setup(self, stage="fit"):
        if stage == "fit":
            train_data_kwargs = {
                "patch_size": self.args.input_shape,
                "oversampling": self.args.oversampling,
                "seed": self.args.seed,
                "images_prefix": self.args.images_prefix,
                "labels_prefix": self.args.labels_prefix,
                "transforms": get_train_transforms(),
            }
            self.train_dataset = DatafluxPytTrain(
                project_name=self.args.gcp_project,
                bucket_name=self.args.gcs_bucket,
                **train_data_kwargs,
            )
            self.train_sampler = None
            if self.args.num_workers > 1:
                self.train_sampler = DistributedSampler(
                    self.train_dataset,
                    seed=self.args.seed,
                    drop_last=True
                )
    
    ```

1. `train.py`

    An instance of the `Unet3DDataModule` class is created and passed to the Pytorch Lightning `Trainer` instance's `fit` function in the `train_dataloaders` keyword argument.
    ```py
    model = Unet3DLightning(flags)
    train_data_loader = Unet3DDataModule(flags)
    trainer = pl.Trainer(
        accelerator=flags.accelerator,
        max_epochs=flags.epochs,
        devices=flags.num_devices,
        num_nodes=flags.num_nodes,
        strategy="ddp",
    )
    trainer.fit(model=model, train_dataloaders=train_data_loader)

    ```


Please note that these demos are for educational and example purposes only, and have not been optimized for performance.


## Setup
1. Create a copy of the dataset in your GCP project
    ```sh
    gcloud storage cp -r gs://dataflux-demo-public/image-segmentation-dataset gs://{YOUR-GCS-BUCKET}
    ```
1. Clone `dataflux-pytorch` repo to your workstation
    ```sh
    # Create a new directory on your workstation
    mkdir dataflux-demo && cd dataflux-demo

    # Clone dataflux-pytorch
    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/dataflux-pytorch
    ```
1. Install dependencies
    ```sh
    # Create a python virtual environment and activate it
    python3 -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate

    cd dataflux-pytorch
    pip install .
    ```

## Single Node Local Execution

```sh
    python3 demo/lightning/image-segmentation/train.py \
    --gcp_project={YOUR-GCP-PROJECT} \
    --gcs_bucket={YOUR-GCS-BUCKET} \
    --images_prefix={YOUR-GCS-BUCKET}/images \
    --labels_prefix={YOUR-GCS-BUCKET}/labels \
    --num_dataloader_threads=10 \
    --prefetch_factor=5 \
    --num_devices=1 \
    --num_nodes=1 \
    --local=True 
```

Be sure to set `--local` to `True`.

## Multi-node GKE Cluster Execution
_Note: the following instructions assume that you have Jobset and Kueue enabled on your GKE cluster. For easy compatability we recommend creating a cluster with [XPK](https://github.com/google/xpk) which will configure these features automatically._

1. Connect to your GKE cluster from your workstation
    ```sh
    # If needed, run
    gcloud auth login && gcloud auth application-default login
    # Connect to the cluster
    gcloud container clusters get-credentials {YOUR-GKE-CLUSTER-NAME} --zone {ZONE} --project {YOUR-GCP-PROJECT}
    ```

1. Build the demo container

    Make sure your working directory is `dataflux-pytorch`
    ```sh
    docker build -t dataflux-demo .
    ```

1. Upload your container to container registry
    ```sh
    docker tag dataflux-demo gcr.io/{YOUR-GCP-PROJECT}/dataflux-demo
    docker push gcr.io/{YOUR-GCP-PROJECT}/dataflux-demo
    ```
1. Apply deployment  

   Update `demo/lightning/image-segmentation/deployment.yaml` at appropriate places. Specifically, `spec.containers.image` and the arguments to `spec.containers.command`. 
   
   This deployment has been tested on a cluster with `4` nodes. If you wish to run the workload on a cluster with different number of nodes, make sure to set `spec.parallelism`, `spec.completions`, the environment variable `WORLD_SIZE`, and the argument `--num_nodes` to `spec.containers.command` are all set to the _same_ value, which is the number of nodes in your cluster.

   ```sh
   kubectl apply -f deploy.yaml
   ```

Commit message:

Skip training when demo is run to benchmark Dataflux (#92)
* Update filters to make model smaller

* Skip training if benchmark is set to true

* Set profiler only when benchmark is True

* Uncommit lightning_logs directory

* Add a note about benchmark flag in the README

* Set filters to small values only when run in benchmark mode

* Add missing comma

* Fix local and benchmark flags' default values

* Update README

* Add a comment explaining why filters is set to small values

demo/lightning/image-segmentation/README.md, after:

# Image Segmentation Demo Code
The code examples in this directory demonstrate how GCS Connector for Pytorch can be used for image segmentation training alongside PyTorch Lightning. The image segmentation workload implemented here works on the [KiTS19](https://github.com/neheller/kits19) dataset which contains `210` images and their corresponding labels. The images and their labels are stored in separate directories.

If you are looking to benchmark data loading performance, pass `--benchmark` to `train.py`. Note that this will skip training altogether.

1. `dataset.py`

    Defines the `DatafluxPytTrain` class which wraps two `DataFluxMapStyleDataset`s corresponding to the `images` and the `labels` in the raw dataset.
    ```py
    def __init__(
            self,
            project_name,
            bucket_name,
            **kwargs,
        ):

            self.train_transforms = kwargs["transforms"]
            patch_size, oversampling = kwargs["patch_size"], kwargs["oversampling"]
            self.patch_size = patch_size
            self.rand_crop = RandBalancedCrop(patch_size=patch_size,
                                            oversampling=oversampling)

            # GCS Connector for Pytorch specific setup.
            self.project_name = project_name
            self.bucket_name = bucket_name

            self.images_dataset = dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.DataFluxMapStyleDataset(
                project_name=self.project_name,
                bucket_name=self.bucket_name,
                config=dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.Config(
                    # This needs to be True to map images with labels
                    sort_listing_results=True,
                    prefix=kwargs["images_prefix"],
                ),
            )

            self.labels_dataset = dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.DataFluxMapStyleDataset(
                project_name=self.project_name,
                bucket_name=self.bucket_name,
                config=dataflux_mapstyle_dataset.Config(
                    # This needs to be True to map images with labels
                    sort_listing_results=True,
                    prefix=kwargs["labels_prefix"],
                ),
            )
    ```

1. `data.py`

    Implements the `Unet3DDataModule` class which inherits from PyTorch Lightning's `LightningDataModule`. An instance of the `DatafluxPytTrain` class is created in its `setup` function.

    ```py
    def setup(self, stage="fit"):
        if stage == "fit":
            train_data_kwargs = {
                "patch_size": self.args.input_shape,
                "oversampling": self.args.oversampling,
                "seed": self.args.seed,
                "images_prefix": self.args.images_prefix,
                "labels_prefix": self.args.labels_prefix,
                "transforms": get_train_transforms(),
            }
            self.train_dataset = DatafluxPytTrain(
                project_name=self.args.gcp_project,
                bucket_name=self.args.gcs_bucket,
                **train_data_kwargs,
            )
            self.train_sampler = None
            if self.args.num_workers > 1:
                self.train_sampler = DistributedSampler(
                    self.train_dataset,
                    seed=self.args.seed,
                    drop_last=True
                )
    
    ```

1. `train.py`

    An instance of the `Unet3DDataModule` class is created and passed to the Pytorch Lightning `Trainer` instance's `fit` function in the `train_dataloaders` keyword argument.
    ```py
    model = Unet3DLightning(flags)
    train_data_loader = Unet3DDataModule(flags)
    trainer = pl.Trainer(
        accelerator=flags.accelerator,
        max_epochs=flags.epochs,
        devices=flags.num_devices,
        num_nodes=flags.num_nodes,
        strategy="ddp",
    )
    trainer.fit(model=model, train_dataloaders=train_data_loader)

    ```


Please note that these demos are for educational and example purposes only, and have not been optimized for performance.


## Setup
1. Create a copy of the dataset in your GCP project
    ```sh
    gcloud storage cp -r gs://dataflux-demo-public/image-segmentation-dataset gs://{YOUR-GCS-BUCKET}
    ```
1. Clone `dataflux-pytorch` repo to your workstation
    ```sh
    # Create a new directory on your workstation
    mkdir dataflux-demo && cd dataflux-demo

    # Clone dataflux-pytorch
    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/dataflux-pytorch
    ```
1. Install dependencies
    ```sh
    # Create a python virtual environment and activate it
    python3 -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate

    cd dataflux-pytorch
    pip install .
    ```

## Single Node Local Execution

```sh
    python3 demo/lightning/image-segmentation/train.py \
    --gcp_project={YOUR-GCP-PROJECT} \
    --gcs_bucket={YOUR-GCS-BUCKET} \
    --images_prefix={YOUR-GCS-BUCKET}/images \
    --labels_prefix={YOUR-GCS-BUCKET}/labels \
    --num_dataloader_threads=10 \
    --prefetch_factor=5 \
    --num_devices=1 \
    --num_nodes=1 \
    --local 
```

Be sure to specify `--local`.

## Multi-node GKE Cluster Execution
_Note: the following instructions assume that you have Jobset and Kueue enabled on your GKE cluster. For easy compatability we recommend creating a cluster with [XPK](https://github.com/google/xpk) which will configure these features automatically._

1. Connect to your GKE cluster from your workstation
    ```sh
    # If needed, run
    gcloud auth login && gcloud auth application-default login
    # Connect to the cluster
    gcloud container clusters get-credentials {YOUR-GKE-CLUSTER-NAME} --zone {ZONE} --project {YOUR-GCP-PROJECT}
    ```

1. Build the demo container

    Make sure your working directory is `dataflux-pytorch`
    ```sh
    docker build -t dataflux-demo .
    ```

1. Upload your container to container registry
    ```sh
    docker tag dataflux-demo gcr.io/{YOUR-GCP-PROJECT}/dataflux-demo
    docker push gcr.io/{YOUR-GCP-PROJECT}/dataflux-demo
    ```
1. Apply deployment  

   Update `demo/lightning/image-segmentation/deployment.yaml` at appropriate places. Specifically, `spec.containers.image` and the arguments to `spec.containers.command`. 
   
   This deployment has been tested on a cluster with `4` nodes. If you wish to run the workload on a cluster with different number of nodes, make sure to set `spec.parallelism`, `spec.completions`, the environment variable `WORLD_SIZE`, and the argument `--num_nodes` to `spec.containers.command` are all set to the _same_ value, which is the number of nodes in your cluster.

   ```sh
   kubectl apply -f deploy.yaml
   ```
